# Workout Wednesday

## What is this?

Repository containing completed modules for Workout Wednesday Power BI challenges. I'm late to the party so I plan to complete 2-3 a week if I can.

## What is Workout Wednesday?

See [here](https://workout-wednesday.com/power-bi-challenges/)

## Completed modules

### 2021 Week 1 | [Power BI: Connecting To & Modeling Data](https://workout-wednesday.com/pbi-2021-w01/)

#### Dataset

- [NCAA Profit and Losses.xlsx](./data/NCAA Profit and Losses.xlsx)

#### Requirements

- Because this is the first ever #WorkoutWednesday Power BI style, we are going to start simple. The first few challenges are going to build on one another, so keep this in mind as we start out the year.
- Create cleaned data set with only teams from the Football Bowl Division. In order to do this, in the FBS Conferences field exclude the FBA Totals and null values.
- Within NCAA Subdivision, remove all Conference Medians
- Create data model properly relating two dim tables to the fact table.
- Try and use as least amount of steps as possible.

#### Revisions

Inaccuracies in the spec, so complete requirements are;

- Filter "FBS Total" and null values from "FBS Conference" column
- Filter "Conference Median" from "NCAA Subdivision" column

### 2021 Week 2 | [Power BI: Creating Basic KPI Report](https://workout-wednesday.com/pbi-2021-w02/)

#### Dataset

- [Week 1 file](./2021/01/NCAA.pbip)

#### Requirements

- Create a new field in Power Query (using M) called Total Profits. This field will be calculated by subtracting Total Expenses from Total Revenues and then adding back in Excess Transfers Back.
- The background on this is that in the past few years, the NCAA has allowed schools to exclude money that was transferred back to the main institution (from the athletic department) from showing as profits. By adding back in Excess Transfers Back we are finding the total amount of money generated by the different athletic deparments
- Definition: Positive net revenues generated by athletics and transferred to the institution for non-athletics purposes. These funds are in excess of the transfers subtracted from the institutional and governmental funds allocated to athletics. (from http://cafidatabase.knightcommission.org/about-the-data)
- Create KPI dashboard that includes 3 high level measures: Total Revenues, Total Expenses, and Total Profits.
- Must include a trend line for each category and breakdown by conference.
- Indicate that this view is the Summary level view within the header area.
- Colors and design of the header section is at your discretion.

### 2021 Week 3 | [Power BI: Report Interactivity](https://workout-wednesday.com/pbi-2021-w03/)

#### Dataset

- [Week 2 file](./2021/02/NCAA.pbip)

#### Requirements

- Add a slicer for [Year] to the report.
- Edit Interactions for the slicer to have it only slice the KPIs and bar charts (not trends)
- Edit Interactions of the Conference breakdowns so that they filter the KPIs and Trends on click.
- Use colors to differentiate between metrics
- Figure out how much money the MAC conference made in 2016

## Notes

- I'm working through these modules on a Mac. That means jumping through a few hoops. I'm running Power BI Desktop via [Parallels](https://www.parallels.com/uk/).
